README.md, before:

# HEAL Parks Analysis

Last updated 7/19/2023 by Ronald Buie

# Project Description

# Data Description

Data are collected annually by on the ground observers. These observers are assigned to a series of parks and asked to complete the SPARC survey instrument in the morning, afternoon, and evening of 3 days per assigned park.

## SOPARC Instrument


## Data Collection

Parks are observed multiple times. 8 times per day. These are in a morning, lunch, afternoon, and evening period (two data collections per period). This process is repeated for 3 days (24 sets of observations per park).

Each park is divided into one or more areas. All areas should be observed during a single observation period. Some areas may be further divided into sub areas. In our data, each area is simply assigned a number.

## Parks as multi level groups

While a park is the primary unit of analysis, data on each park are collected in areas and sub-areas. Areas are pre-defined spaces of a park, generally based on visibility (to the researcher) requiring unique observation points, or by equipment/use of an area that distinguishes it from other areas of the same park. In addition, an area may be further subdevided into sub-areas. Sub-areas are not pre-defined, and are created as-needed by the observer in order to make observation practical.


## 

# Analysis Approach

Commit message:

updated repo readme for missing soparc section and link to 2023 study
updated gitignore eto exclude zip

README.md, after:

# HEAL Parks Analysis

Last updated 7/19/2023 by Ronald Buie

# Project Description

# Data Description

Data are collected annually by on the ground observers. These observers are assigned to a series of parks and asked to complete the SPARC survey instrument in the morning, afternoon, and evening of 3 days per assigned park.

## SOPARC Instrument

The study relies primarily on the System for Observing Play and Recreation in Communities ([SOPARC]) instrument. This instrument records the type of activity, number of people engageed inteh activity, and demographic information about those people.

## Data Collection

Parks are observed multiple times. 8 times per day. These are in a morning, lunch, afternoon, and evening period (two data collections per period). This process is repeated for 3 days (24 sets of observations per park).

Each park is divided into one or more areas. All areas should be observed during a single observation period. Some areas may be further divided into sub areas. In our data, each area is simply assigned a number.

## Parks as multi level groups

While a park is the primary unit of analysis, data on each park are collected in areas and sub-areas. Areas are pre-defined spaces of a park, generally based on visibility (to the researcher) requiring unique observation points, or by equipment/use of an area that distinguishes it from other areas of the same park. In addition, an area may be further subdevided into sub-areas. Sub-areas are not pre-defined, and are created as-needed by the observer in order to make observation practical.

# Analysis Approach

Specific analyses may be viewed in the sub directories of this folder:

-  [./2023] Annual Study

[SOPARC]: https://activelivingresearch.org/sites/activelivingresearch.org/files/SOPARC_Protocols.pdf
