# HEAL Parks Analysis

<<<<<<< HEAD
Maintained by Ronald Buie
=======
Last updated 10/30/2024 by Ronald Buie
>>>>>>> 01ad74f34e4e2fd2e8631be79486cad7555fa293

# Project Description

The Healthy Eating Active Living (HEAL) initiative includes a family of studies aimed at identifying the availability and impact of parks on King County residents. APDE provides analytics support for this work, including data structuring, analysis, and report generation. This repository is of code generated by APDE for this work.

# Data Description

Data include field observatons, collected annually by on the ground observers, and administrative and population level data, collected by PHSKC staff as needed. 

## Field Data Collection

A sample of parks are directly observed by PHSKC in order to directly sample who is using a park and how they are using the park.

Observers are assigned to a series of parks and asked to complete the SPARC survey instrument in the morning, afternoon, and evening of 3 days per assigned park.

Parks are observed multiple times. 8 times per day. These are in a morning, lunch, afternoon, and evening period (two data collections per period). This process is repeated for 3 days (24 sets of observations per park).

Each park is divided into one or more areas. All areas should be observed during a single observation period. Some areas may be further divided into sub areas. In our data, each area is simply assigned a number.

### SOPARC Instrument

These observations rely primarily on the System for Observing Play and Recreation in Communities ([SOPARC]) instrument. This instrument records the type of activity, number of people engaged in the activity, and demographic information about those people.

### Parks as multi level groups

While a park is the primary unit of analysis, data on each park are collected in areas and sub-areas. Areas are pre-defined spaces of a park, generally based on visibility (to the researcher) requiring unique observation points, or by equipment/use of an area that distinguishes it from other areas of the same park. In addition, an area may be further subdivided into sub-areas. Sub-areas are not pre-defined, and are created as-needed by the observer in order to make observation practical.

[SOPARC]: https://activelivingresearch.org/sites/activelivingresearch.org/files/SOPARC_Protocols.pdf
